this is the great rhubari sand sea in
the heart of the Sahara these swallows
have traveled 1 and a half thousand
miles since they left Nigeria their
superpowers of navigation will
eventually guide them to Europe but now
they and other thirsty migrants need to
find a speck of blue amidst this ocean
of sand and here it is
mell MA
[Music]
here to ancient groundwater wells up to
the surface
[Music]
but the birds need to be careful for the
sons has played a terrible trick
this Oasis is poisonous intense
evaporation over thousands of years has
left the water saltier than the sea as
if to underline the horror the place is
infested by vast swarms of flies
[Applause]
but this plague is a bird salvation the
Flies are filled with fresh water
filtered from the brine
so like a desert wanderer squeezing a
drink from a cactus the birds get all
the water they need from the fly's
bodies
[Music]
more and more migrants join in
what
[Music]
this is the birds only stopover they
give them enough fuel to escape from the
Sahara and Africa alone Grevy's zebra
he weighs close to half a ton and could
go for three days without drinking like
the macaques his forebears were refugees
from the advancing Sahara the land is
scrubby and dry this stallion has
claimed it as his own he's been waiting
months for visitors female visitors if
they like his territory they might stay
a while it's his first chance to mate
for a very long time
hardly a success perhaps his visitors
are looking for a more impressive
partners there's another setback the
females were being followed a posse of
young males everyone arrival
[Music]
it's time to separate the men from the
boys
one by one the stallion sees them off
[Music]
the females had ringside seats
and his prowess has not gone unnoticed
[Music]
but his MO gives way to tenderness
around here you have to take every
opportunity be it for food for water or
for mates female Grevy's are a fickle
Bunch the herd have decided to move on
all of them the stallion may never see
them again but there's a chance that one
is now carrying his foe
the Nile crocodile a creature older than
Africa itself its hunting skills honed
over 200 million years
[Music]
using extreme stealth the crocodile
needs to get within a metre of it's
pretty
desperate to drink the Buffalo seemed
blind to the danger
[Music]
just too much for a croc out of water
but there will be another chance in the
Serengeti youngsters spend years
watching how older lionesses tackle
large prey however it looks as though
these Cubs will have to teach themselves
through trial and error
they begin the stalk like seasoned
hunters using the scant cover to conceal
themselves and they have to be
incredibly quiet Oryx are spooked by the
slightest sound
one of the youngsters looks as though
it's made a mistake
it's broken cover actually very cleverly
it's pushing the aurochs towards the
other line
[Music]
an Oryx is quite capable of seeing off
alarm as long as the antelope sense its
ground and doesn't run but will the Oryx
keep its nerve
finally the youngsters lose heart
first the elephant's often race into
pools the matriarch knows that her
family was not Russian
this pool is stagnant and the elephants
have a trick that deals with that
sediment settles to the bottom and the
cleaner fresher water lies on the
surface they skim it carefully from the
top
then as gently as elephants can they
move forward slowly trying not to
disturb the stagnant layers but precious
water like this draws in herds from far
and wide in the exuberance of a greeting
all their careful birth is undone
when Bulls are forced together by the
need for water tempers can flare
[Music]